What does it mean to be a leader?
Is it someone who knows all the answers?
Who performs the best?
Or is it someone who has been with the company the longest?
These are just a few
of the common myths surrounding leadership.
But if you don't understand what it means to be a leader,
then how can you expect to be a great one?
So, let's clear the air
and explore what leadership actually means.
Then, we'll look at the five critical functions
of business leaders.
First is a definition.
Leadership is the act of influencing others
to achieve a shared outcome or a common goal.
Leadership is not necessarily tied to authority or power.
It involves mobilizing people
and inspiring them to take collective action.
So, what does a leader actually do?
Or what is a leader's primary role
in advancing a company's interests and growth?
Here are five of the main roles
that business leaders fulfill for their teams.
First, leaders inspire a shared vision.
They answer the questions, where are we going,
and how will we get there?
They share this vision with everyone in the company
to get them on board and excited about it.
Without a shared vision,
a team's efforts becomes disjointed
and not much gets accomplished.
Leaders who inspire a shared vision unite their teams
and provide them with a clear direction
and a sense of purpose in their work.
Teams take concerted action.
Second, leaders make things happen.
They make decisions, create and execute a strategy,
and achieve results through others.
Leaders create a strategy
or a roadmap for translating vision into reality.
They define what needs to happen,
which resources to use by whom and when.
That means leaders create not only the vision
but also a plan for how the company will get there.
They then execute the plan, manage changes or updates to it,
and take responsibility for insuring its success.
The third leadership function is essential.
It's to engage and motivate others.
The best leaders don't act as lone heroes or team all-stars.
Instead, they get things done
by unlocking the potential of others.
Leaders strategically engage the skills, strengths,
and expertise of the people around them.
They inspire, motivate,
and encourage employees to do their best work.
Another important function of leadership
is to develop human capital.
They invest in the training and professional growth
of the people and competencies they need
to sustain the company.
They help people cultivate the leadership skills they need
to manage others, solve problems,
and take meaningful responsibility
and ownership in the company.
Finally, leaders embody company values.
In other words, they lead by example.
They shape company culture,
strengthen the company's identity,
and exemplify the character, attitudes,
and behaviors that they want others to emulate.
Leaders inspire loyalty and respect from others
when they themselves act with integrity and good will.
Altogether, a bad leader inspires fear
whereas a great leader inspires excitement.
A bad leader blames others
whereas a great leader coaches others.
A bad leader works alone
whereas a great leader works through others.
And a bad leader depends on authority
whereas a great leader depends on influence.
Understanding what leadership means
and how leaders best serve their teams
brings you one step closer
to becoming a better leader yourself.
Avoid the pitfalls of bad leadership
and seek opportunities to develop
and hone your leadership skills.